Peter Drumey at Mass Historical, just so we know.
Go ahead.
You know what you're going to say?
Yeah, this is, when you were talking about the, you know, this is a special kind of book that influences on you, but because David McCullough was talking about this, the book, you know, his first book, I thought it'd be interesting to have Henry Adams, the historian's first book.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
Well, I can't say it's his first book, but the first book that meant something that he kept.
And this was a book given to him by his grandmother, Louisa Catherine.
And we know all of this, right?
Oh, it's got a note by her right in it.
So he has signed it as he does.
That's his
And he has this perfectly idiosyncratic handwriting.
This is a little misleading because that book plate is, in fact, his book plate.
It's a book plate that we put in it.
I think somebody's going to be very happy to find it.
Okay.
I think somebody out of this group.
It could be in the group who came up on the bus.
So put these at the front desk.
Tell them to hold them in case somebody calls.
But tell them to leave a note that at the end of the day, give me these back in case somebody calls late after.
But we think of somebody who's in the teacher group.
Yeah, at the special classroom.
We are aware now, tell me for Mike.
We're in our fourth floor stacks, just renovated.
Now, for the first time, this old part of the building, climate control.
And for the first time for this place, be careful behind you there, because there's a lot of red rot on the shelves as you brush up against things.
But we've got, for the first time, we have...
You can't see over there, it looks like water plants here.
That's an inert fire suppression system that's just installed.
It's intergen.
It's something new.
It's replaced haline.
It replaces haline.
It does the same thing.
It suppresses the fire, but without any toxic or carcinogenic effects.
We're just moving things around.
I'm actually moving a bit wider about him from being an off-site store tomorrow, but let's see if we can get... Where do you store off-site?
We use HD, the Harvard Depository.
Oh, that's great.
We're probably...
My guess is... I don't think they'll let anybody in there.
I don't think they'll let anybody new in anymore.
But I suspect we may be the biggest non-Harvard client.
And it's not secret or anything.
The only thing that makes sense... But you're whispering.
Well, because we have such a good deal.
No, it's not right.
We have such a good deal.
I'm concerned that what's going to happen is they're not going to run out of space in the sense that it's modular.
Well, they can just keep building.
They can go up to 20.
Yeah, but what's going to happen is at some point someone's going to say...
Now, you mean to say we're building this other module and we're storing stuff that doesn't belong to... You know, that's where I'm... I mean, everybody pays the same rate, so it's in that sense.
But what I'm afraid of is someone in some sort of rational business decision, because we are renters, we're not stakeholders in any kind of... Well, I've already written my chapter on sleep, so... Yeah, but we have to, because...
Modern papers, modern papers are just physically so large that it gets, I mean this film is only 40,000 square feet.
You can only, that's... Bill Gates' house is bigger.
Well, you know, you can go up so many shelves and we're in landfill, you know, there's a limit to it.
We use compact service wherever we can.
But, yeah, here's what I was telling you about, let's see, oh, this is just getting...
And these are?
Kipling.
And these are Henry Adams' books.
Henry Adams' copy of The Jungle Book.
But, you know, also they're wonderful copies because they're very early.
Does he have a book plate?
Only a few of his books have his own.
Only actually the books he had when he was young have his own book plate.
But there's his signature in 1895.
Hold on, let's get a look.
That's kind of right.
Look at that.
That's what I love about these cameras.
Well, that's what I love about it, too.
I see it.
It's an 1894 edition, New York edition, which must be early on.
I hate to show you, but isn't this fantastic?
Look at that.
Wonderful.
Yeah, it really is.
So this is a book that's not marked, but it's open.
And also, one of the things, Henry Adams, because he traveled so extensively,
He ran into people like Kipling and Robert Louis Stevenson in the South Pacific.
He just moved through this sort of world.
I don't know why, but it surprised me to run into this.
Did it show you a side of Adams that you there too far did not know existed?
Is that what it is?
Yeah, because it shows a wider range.
You think he went bald because his brain was so big it was pushing his hair out of his head.
Adams clan were a bunch of really smart people and really well-educated people.
I think it shows a wider range.
I love Kipling myself, personally.
But tippling, you know, is popular culture, popular writing in its own day.
It's not, you know, high culture, high literature.
You always expect more seriousness out of the Adamses.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, it's something in French, you know.
Or, you know.
That's kind of letting your hair down a little bit, you think?
Yeah, yeah.
And I think it's important to know—I may have to go up on the ladder to get this down for you, but there's another book that—because we're talking about Roosevelt.
Let's see if I can pull this one out.
I meant to mention to David this morning because I found it very interesting, but there was a book published in 1928, and it's called The Best Books of Our Time.
Have you ever heard of that book by Asa Dawn Dickinson, a librarian?
It's totally unheard of.
I bought it.
There's a new book.
Not exactly like that.
This book of books to read by a librarian?
Reader Services Library.
It's a reader or advisor book.
It's got quite a bit of play in the last few months.
You know, these things are, I don't know that book.
What's funny about it is that, you know, they pick the thousand, tough thousand books and you go in there.
You don't know, I mean, who are they?
And then it gives them rankings, how many sponsors they had.
And one of the sponsors was, I thought David would like this,
is the list of books that Theodore Roosevelt took along with him on one of his expeditions to Africa.
But these were books that Roosevelt must have been quite a reader in his day.
I'm giving away my feeling, but I have a feeling that Roosevelt wrote more books than several recent presidents.
I remember John Kenneth Galbraith told me once, because he loved Adlai Stevenson, when we were talking about how he was the egghead, the perception, he said, well, let me tell you, I knew Adlai very well.
And there were a lot of unread books in his library.
He wasn't quite the egghead everyone made him out to be, he said.
I hope I can find this just paging through for you.
But this is, what this is, Henry Adams spent a great deal of his life writing about the era, the early 19th century American history, the era when Jefferson and then Madison were president from 1800 to
1820, that sort of period.
But in his library, this is Theodore Roosevelt's first substantial book.
This is The Naval War of 1812 that he wrote when he was, I think he started this book when he was a college student.
And this book came out, we actually have an earlier book, a third list for the Adirondacks.
But this is Henry Adams' copy of this Roosevelt book.
And what's sort of interesting to me is, if I can find these marks, they're kind of wonderful.
because they'll have things like, oh, you know, he misspelled Captain Lumley's name, left the knee out.
He's editing it.
Yeah, yeah, these marks.
He's lying editing it.
Yeah, yeah, and he says on the 28th of April, and was it on the 27th?
Was it on the 29th?
I don't think.
Adams had much use for Roosevelt, and he's reading this so closely that it shows him kind of in this worst pedantic way.
There's a place where it says,
the 36-gunship, and then he breaks the margin, the 34-gunship.
Wow.
So he's nitpicking.
He's nitpicking.
To strengthen his own... Yeah, because someone's come into his, what he considers his sphere.
Treading on those turfs.
That's right, and Adam's wrote very wonderfully about the War of 1812, not this kind of, you know, Roosevelt is like, this ship fought this ship, and the Americans are all heroes.
Adams wrote kind of a bigger picture, kind of bigger, the world kind of view, but has a lot of details about individual actions.
Who remembers that Teddy Roosevelt was such a writer, though?
I find it really interesting because he's a kind of vibrant, vigorous writer.
Do you think he was kind of the American Winston Churchill in a way?
Well, that's an interesting point.
I don't see any evidence that
Well, Churchill lived on, what, it's in 1960.
But you want to know Bill Price for literature.
For literature, yeah.
But I don't see any evidence that a hundred years out, you know, okay, Roosevelt dies in 19, you know, dies only four years before Churchill.
So if we know Churchill as being this important, influential writer, do you think people 40 years from now are going to have, I just don't see it.
I don't either.
Churchill wrote more autobiographically about his... They also wrote because he needed the money.
Well, true.
And there are Roosevelt books where he's the central figure, but those are about exploration.
But Churchill writes centrally about his own role and ethical events.
Actually, what I've always been struck by is, you know, it's remarkable about Roosevelt.
It's Roosevelt this really important president
not Rushmore, without being president when there's a war.
And an interesting way is that I've often thought we associate greatness in presidents often with people who are faced and did well and are faced in Lincoln, Franklin Delano, Roosevelt.
You wonder if the United States had kind of come out of the recession in a kind of easy...
more straightforward way in the 1930s, and there hadn't been anything, you know, would FDR loom so large except for this adversity faced?
You know, Lincoln, you know, if Lincoln, well, kind of hard, it's almost impossible thinking without the Civil War, you know, but it's sort of like we kind of have associated this greatness with these events that took place rather than, and these were active agents in those things, but somebody like Roosevelt's interesting.
It's not that he didn't do a lot as president.
But in a way, it's even more remarkable, because most of the stuff he did, he did as an independent agent.
He was forced to do these things, the Panama Canal, the breaking the trust, the national park system.
Nobody made him do any of those things.
I mean, he saw the need for those things.
He's also kind of... Well, maybe that's the essence of his greatness.
Greatness.
Well, it is.
But it's sort of striking that people appreciate it.
But it is sort of funny that people, even people who know about him, will sort of put
That aside, I've always sort of regretted, I've always assumed that, I don't know this for a fact, maybe David McCullough thought his book about young Roosevelt was self-contained, and that was all the story he was going to tell.
I've kind of got this feeling that maybe this Morris biography came along.
Well, I did an interview with him, and he absolutely, his publisher at that time did not want him to do the book.
Yeah, because I find the Morris... And he said, I have enough confidence in what I'm doing that it's going to be sufficiently different.
to justify it.
He was grateful that Simon Schuster said, all right, we'll go ahead and do it.
But I think he really did have to kind of focus on the other.
Yeah, because that's how there are people you know, and it's hard to suspend.
Morris has kind of done the opposite.
He's not done anything bad to me.
I think I've seen him.
I've never had any kind of serious connection.
I find it kind of striking that we have
this enormous correspondence between Roosevelt and Henry Cavett Lodge, as far as I know, Morrison never came here.
You know, for writing substantial books, there are so many, you know, in terms of his biography, there's so much in it that's not kind of, you know, it's almost like his subject is so interesting, and he's a good writer, I'm not saying he isn't, but his subject is so intrinsically interesting, it carries the book forward, and when you look at the book, you think,
How can someone have written 800 pages, and here's all these things that aren't there?
And also, I think I'm kind of a bias against that kind of analogy.
I remember, in fact, I think it was David McCuller.
Again, why Roosevelt?
I mean, I think he was saying at the time that Roosevelt, reading his memoirs, there was so much he didn't say about, I think it was the Panama Canal or something like that.
Maybe that was when he was doing the Panama Canal.
Yeah, that's right.
And that really got him to look at the Panama Canal.
Yeah, there are big things that you'd hard to know from his own description of his own acting.
So what?
But he wouldn't give De Lesseps any credit, for instance.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kind of funny.
But, yeah, it's sort of like, but here, this is only part of it because it continues in the back.
Now, these are all Henry Adams?
All Henry Adams books.
I mean, they don't include the large books, which are stored separately, and we're only seeing about, we're seeing about, on this side, about two-thirds of the books we have.
Two hundred volumes, approximately, do you think, roughly?
Thirty-five hundred here.
Uh-huh.
And then what does that, what is that universe of books that he had that, and that's,
He had fixed bases, both in France and Paris and Washington.
Nevertheless, if you move around, you don't collect a lot of books.
I think he read not all of them, but one of the things here... Did you see evidence of what?
There's evidence of a lot of them.
Occasionally there are books that he probably didn't read, but they're kind of wonderful.
I'm looking for
I'll just get it off the shelf, because it'll be right here.
You've been through pretty much all of them, I gather, too, huh?
Yeah, yeah.
Well, one of the things is, you know, be a librarian, work in a room surrounded by books, and you can't not look at them.
Here, this is my favorite thing.
These are your favorites.
One of my favorites.
And it's a favorite in terms of ... Sure.
This is Samuel Ariat Morrison's first important book, written under this roof, probably in the second floor.
And this is the perfect, the world spins on.
Morrison owned, he and his aunt together owned the Otis papers that are here.
that this book was based on.
It's a life in letters, it's very 19th century, you know, all filled with transcribed documents in the way of the 19th century.
But this, and I don't have the letter here, it's not inserted, but I have it.
This book comes out in 1913.
Morrison, still a young guy, has a post at Oxford that year or the year before.
He brings this
this set of books to Paris where Henry Adams is living and writes a note in that polite way of the 19th century, even though this is the 1913 or 14th century.
Dear Mr. Anderson, may I come as humble, come and present you a copy of my humble book because I so admire you as a historian.
And Adams very nicely says, you know, sense of a note thing.
And Adams, after his death, people assembled his correspondence.
So it's one of his wonderful things where you have book letters written to him, but you have his letters are in his papers, which kind of seems a contradiction, but nevertheless.
So you have this kind of
nice, polite exchange of letters, and it's kind of these generations of American historians joined.
You know, here are the young Samuel N. Morrison meeting the, by that time, relatively ancient Henry Adams, and this book.
And I think Adams gives him a copy of one of his books, and, you know, in return is it yet, books being exchanged.
You don't know what the book is, anyway.
I can look it up.
It's an early book.
It may be that
But Adams himself, as a young guy, wrote about this period of American history, about New England federalists.
So there would be a linkage.
There's a linkage.
I mean, it's a very concrete, real linkage.
And I think the gift and exchange, it demonstrates that.
I interrupted your thought about this exchange of books.
But books being, you know, the book is artifacts again, you know, the book is, I can't tell you that all these books are open, which is kind of interesting, you know, that in my test again, again, the great period is the period of the books with unopened pages.
because it gives you a much better feel.
Did they inscribe them together?
I don't believe so, because I think there was this note that came along with it.
Oh, there's a note.
So I think that's an interesting thing, but I think that's a different sensibility.
And often, in other instances, their notes are inserted right in the books.
This one, because we have this big collection.
So that kind of works as the inscription.
Yeah, that's right.
The presentation copy.
put the same kind of weight that we do at having this in the book.
No, the inscription was, I think, from Reddit, the note that came along with it.
But it's that symbolic connection where Henry Adams had long since put American history behind him, and he was an old guy.
Nevertheless, it's this sort of connection of these, arguably one of the great American historians of the twentieth century connects with one of the great historians.
that I used this instance, this episode, do you think we'd be able to find the letters?
Oh, of course.
I mean, quickly, I will for you, no matter whether you used it or not.
Well, I used it.
Because it's such a good story.
It's a fabulous story, yeah.
And Henry Adams letters, because he has this wonderful, long, graceful handwriting,
are very readable in their own way.
And it may well be.
We may even want to reproduce them as... Yeah, but I'll follow up on the kind of details.
And if we had it in both directions, that would be exquisite.
Yeah, we do.
And I think the mention... I don't know what... I think Morrison's own books were dispersed.
I don't think they were kept together.
Peter, you're a formidable reader in your own right.
It's so apparent.
All I do is do interviews now.
You should have heard David McCullough sing his praises this morning.
He usually says, damn, before he says my name, that people think that's my first name.
He said to me, and he said, I'm so glad.
I told him, I said, look, I'm not going to go to the BPL with you.
I'm going to stay here with Peter.
He said, good for you.
He said, you can always go to the BPO.
He said, talk to Peter.
He said, you have to talk to Peter.
He ranks you number one, by the way, of all the curators.
What was that again?
I have it on tape, in fact.
If I could find it, I'll dupe it for you.
It's sort of like, I think, what I really like about this work is that I like the otherworldliness of it.
And the sort of public part of it, I just find it embarrassing.
Well, I'll try not to embarrass it.
No, no, no, but it's sort of like, I'm getting used to it now after my thing yesterday.
I'm getting so forgetful.
So did you study to be a librarian first, or as your background, like David was an English major, I was an English major?
I was going to be a children's librarian.
Is that right?
Yeah.
Well, don't say it like that.
So what was your undergraduate study in?
In history.
And where was that?
At Columbia.
So you have both degrees down there.
Yeah, I didn't go to college until I was much older than people tend to.
Oh, and can you do something for me, M.A.?
This is, I mean, M.A., for M.A.
Delta.
And it's going to, you know, to Thailand.
Uh-huh.
And I probably have already shown you this.
This is this wonderful account of the people in the 1840s going into the Yucatan.
Uh-huh.
And I think it includes right where she's going, too.
Oh, look at that, huh?
So that must be a steel engraving you figure?
Yeah, yeah.
And actually, the story that goes along with it, there are speculations about the Mayan 1840s that are relatively uninformed.
But as I understand it, the state, the physical state of these ruins was that a lot of decay is relatively recent caused by environmental conditions and steel and stuff.
So that what they saw and what they described pictorially is very important for understanding what these things looked like.
And they're modern in a sense of mapping things.
But again, this is that kind of... Whose books are these?
Probably those are Henry Adams' copies.
But they're his copies of what book are we talking about?
It's this man, Joseph Catherwood Stevens, Incidents of Travel in the Yucatan.
Okay, that's famous.
Catherwood and Stevens, yeah.
They made this very famous, let's see if I've got that title right.
That's famous.
Yeah, John L. Stevens.
Well, they're the ones who basically discovered it.
Oh, yeah.
Stevens is the one who says it's like finding a...
on abandoned ships.
Yeah, that's right.
And seeing this... And he was the one who made the comparison to the Egyptian... That's right.
Yeah.
No, I mean, very, very famous, and a wonderful adventure story, you know, too.
And that's very interesting that Adams would have been... Adams was a terrific traveler, but he also collected a terrific amount of travel literature.
I guess I should have known that was in his collection.
I'm sure I showed her this before, and I just gave her a biography of students yesterday, but...
out of my own, personally.
The only thing about being, you know, that's, I can't imagine having a book that I think somebody's interested in not